---
outline: deep
---

# Why Graphane?

**Graphane** is a **micro-framework** that empowers designers and developers **to craft interactive
and customizable data-driven graphics, diagrams, and visualizations**.

Graphane merges the flexibility of **web components**, ensuring compatibility with leading
frameworks, with a comprehensive **system of templates** grounded in directives and **reactive 
data** integration, all supported by a resilient and **high-performance** implementation.

## Template-centric

At the heart of **Graphane** is a **flexible SVG template system**. Data is combined with graphical
elements in real time through a simple set of attributes known as directives. This template-centric
approach provides a dynamic and intuitive means of shaping visualizations, offering flexibility in
the representation of data-driven graphics.

## Data-Driven

**Graphane** significantly streamlines the intricate process of **developing data-driven graphs**.
The framework facilitates the reactivity connection of data to diverse graphical elements. The
central emphasis of Graphane revolves around creating dynamic visualizations, enabling designers and
developers to infuse interactivity and data reactivity into their graphics.

## Declarative

The **Graphane declarative** approach offers **several advantages** over the imperative model based
primarily on Javascript code.

### Readability and Intuitiveness

Declarative code is **easier to read and understand**. We declare what we want to accomplish, and
the system determines how to do it. In the case of SVG templates in Graphane, we declare the
relationship between data and graphical elements using directives. This approach makes the code more
intuitive and easier to use, especially for designers or users with little programming knowledge.

### Separation of Concerns

It provides a **clean separation between data and presentation logic**. The data handling is
abstracted from the visualization code in the declarative form. We can build an aesthetic design
without limitations. The graphics and the data are combined smoothly.

## Interactivity

Graphane **strongly emphasizes interactivity**, elevating the user experience by enabling active
engagement with visualizations. Whether designing a sophisticated user interface or developing a
data-driven graph, the dynamic features of Graphane take center stage in fostering a seamless and
engaging interaction. With Graphane, users go beyond passive observationâ€”they become active
participants in exploring data visualization.

Of course, for event management, we use Javascript; we do not hate the code, and we understand that
using code is especially useful to manage the user's intentions when interacting with the graphics.

## Seamless Integration

As a web component, Graphane ensures **easy integration and reusability** from the realms of popular
web frameworks to simple HTML pages through all types of CMS. The Graphane micro-framework boasts a
lightweight footprint and exceptional performance, allowing us to incorporate dynamic SVG
functionality without significantly burdening our projects. This design promotes accessibility and
flexibility, making Graphane an ideal choice for projects where efficiency and responsiveness are
keys to success.

